Unit 13 - Update content of RMT.mdx (#187)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/Unit 13 - Outlook/Retention.mdx

# Retention In Vision

## What is Retention Networks
Retentive Network (RetNet) is a foundational architecture proposed for large language models in the paper [Retentive Network: A Successor to Transformer for Large Language Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.08621). This architecture is designed to address key challenges in the realm of large-scale language modeling: training parallelism, low-cost inference, and good performance.

![LLM Challenges](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/LLM%20Challenges.png)
RetNet is able to tackle these challenges by introducing the Multi-Scale Retention (MSR) mechanism, which is an alternative to the multi-head attention mechanism commonly used in Transformer models. 

> MSR has a dual form of recurrence and parallelism, so it is possible to train the models in a parallel way while recurrently conducting inference.

Author: I am actually planning to explain the RetNet in more detail later in the notebook. How do you think of this ?

> MSR has a dual form of recurrence and parallelism, so it is possible to train the models in a parallel way while recurrently conducting inference.

Reviewer: In that case, you should mention it here. Something like "We will explore RetNet in detail in the following notebook." and don't forget to provide a link to the notebook once you have it.

> MSR has a dual form of recurrence and parallelism, so it is possible to train the models in a parallel way while recurrently conducting inference.

Author: Sure! I'm currently in the process of making the notebook.

> MSR has a dual form of recurrence and parallelism, so it is possible to train the models in a parallel way while recurrently conducting inference.

Reviewer: That's a good question.  I would put it in the notebook because I suspect there's quite a bit of overlap.

> MSR has a dual form of recurrence and parallelism, so it is possible to train the models in a parallel way while recurrently conducting inference.

Author: Okay then! I will move it to the notebook for the RetNet explanation. Thank you!

> MSR has a dual form of recurrence and parallelism, so it is possible to train the models in a parallel way while recurrently conducting inference.

Author: I have fixed the content of the file, please take a look at it. Thank you!

The Multi-Scale Retention mechanism operates under three computation paradigms:
- **Parallel Representation:** This aspect of RetNet is designed to fully utilize GPU resources, enabling efficient parallel training of the model.

> ![Parallel Representation](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/Parallel%20Representation.png)

Author: I think I will delete the image and move it to the notebook.

- **Recurrent Representation:** This representation facilitates efficient inference with O(1) complexity in terms of memory and computational requirements. It significantly reduces deployment costs and latency, and simplifies implementation by eliminating the need for key-value cache strategies often used in traditional models.

> ![Recurrent Representation](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/Recurrent%20Representation.png)

Author: This one too.

- **Chunkwise Recurrent Representation:** This third paradigm addresses the challenge of long-sequence modeling. It achieves this by encoding each local block in parallel for computational speed while simultaneously and recurrently encoding global blocks to optimize GPU memory usage.

During the training phase, the approach incorporates both parallel and chunkwise recurrent representations, optimizing GPU usage for fast computation and being particularly effective for long sequences in terms of computational efficiency and memory use. 
For the inference phase, the recurrent representation is used, favoring autoregressive decoding. This method efficiently reduces memory usage and latency, maintaining equivalent performance outcomes.

## From Language to Image
### RMT

> Paper [RMT: Retentive Networks Meet Vision Transformers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11523) proposes a new vision backbone inspired by the RetNet architecture. The authors propose RMT to enhance the Vision Transformer (ViT) by introducing explicit spatial priors and reducing computational complexity, drawing inspiration from the RetNet's parallel representation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The paper [RMT: Retentive Networks Meet Vision Transformers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11523) proposes a new vision backbone inspired by the RetNet architecture. The authors propose RMT to enhance the Vision Transformer (ViT) by introducing explicit spatial priors and reducing computational complexity, drawing inspiration from the RetNet's parallel representation. 
```

- **Manhattan Self-Attention (MaSA)**
![Attention Comparison](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/Attention%20Comparison.png)
MaSA incorporates Self-Attention mechanism with a two-dimensional bidirectional spatial decay matrix based on the Manhattan distance among the tokens. This matrix decreases attention scores for tokens further away from a target token, allowing it to perceive global information while varying attention based on distance.

- **Decomposed Manhattan Self-Attention (MaSAD)**
![MaSAD](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/MaSAD.png)
This mechanism decomposes Self-Attention in images along horizontal and vertical axes of the image, maintaining the spatial decay matrix without losing prior information. This decomposition allows the Manhattan Self-Attention (MaSA) to model global information efficiently with linear complexity, while preserving the original MaSA's receptive field shape.

> However, unlike the original RetNet that performs training with parallel representation and inference with recurrent representation, RMT does both processes with MaSA mechanism. The authors have done comparisons between MaSA and other RetNet's representations, and they show that MaSA has the best throughput with the highest accuracy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, unlike the original RetNet, which performs training with parallel representation and inference with recurrent representation, RMT does both processes with the MaSA mechanism. The authors have made comparisons between MaSA and other RetNet's representations, and they show that MaSA has the best throughput with the highest accuracy.
```
